At 6:15 a.m., Dispatch received a 911 call regarding the discovery of a dead body at the Yoknapatawpha County Convention Center at 1710 Belk Boulevard. The caller identified herself as Yvonne Boyd (Person 2), YCCC Accommodation Manager.

Yoknapatawpha County Sheriff's Unit 209 (Officer P. Winston) was dispatched and arrived at the scene at 6:23 a.m. After confirming the presence of the body, R/O secured the scene and contacted Dispatch and requested backup and medical assistance.

Reporting Investigators (R/Is) Detectives S. Murphy and E. Parker were assigned and proceeded directly to the scene. At R/Is' request, Coroner’s Inspector L. Johnson and a CSU team were notified to respond to the scene.

R/Is arrived at the scene at 6:57 a.m. and found that R/O had secured the area. Environmental conditions at the scene upon arrival are as follows: Weather: Exterior Ambient Temperature: 46°F/ 8°C; Relative Humidity: 53%; Interior Ambient Temperature 68°F / 20°C; Interior Relative Humidity: 40%.

R/O Winston made the following verbal report, which is stated in summary and not verbatim.

R/O entered the YCCC through the main entrance was directed by front desk personnel to a hallway outside the fitness room, where R/O was met by an adult female who identified herself as Yvonne Boyd (Person 2).

On the floor in the hallway was the body of an adult male, who Boyd identified as Jared Plunk (Person 1). At R/O's request, Boyd exited the area and returned to the main entrance to direct backup and medical personnel to R/O's location.

R/O then secured the scene and cleared the area, finding no other persons present in the vicinity.

R/O said YCFD EMTs R. Peterson and J. Bilkey arrived at approximately 6:31 a.m., and after confirming the victim was deceased, withdrew from the crime scene.

R/O further stated that, to the best of his knowledge, the following personnel had occasion to enter the crime scene area and must be documented by CSU personnel: witness Yvonne Boyd, EMTs Peterson and Bilkey, and himself.
After receiving the report from R/O Winston, R/Is conducted a preliminary inspection of the scene. In the hallway between the elevator and the fitness room, R/Is observed a lifeless human body, a male estimated to be in his mid to late 40s, lying prone on the floor.

Visual inspection indicated the victim was wearing a dark blue jacket, white shirt, and dark blue pants. The legs were slightly apart with the right leg straight and the left leg bent at the hip and knee. The left arm was bent and slightly under the body with the hand approximately 1-inch from the face. The right arm was extended perpendicular to the body and bent nearly 90° at the elbow with the right hand extended above the head. The head was to the north and the feet to the south.

Further visual inspection revealed the front and the back of the jacket and shirt were saturated with what appeared to be blood. R/Is observed multiple injuries to the back, chest and right forearm. R/Is delayed further inspection of the body until the arrival of the Coroner's Inspector.

R/Is observed an overturned trash container and a scrap of paper on the floor near the body. No other items were immediately visible in the vicinity. CSU will conduct a thorough examination and inventory, and report their findings.

Coroner's Inspector Luwinda Johnson arrived at the scene at approximately 7:10 a.m. and joined R/Is at the body's location. Inspector Johnson pronounced the victim deceased at 7:24 a.m. by visual observation that the victim was not breathing and by tactile observation that the victim did not have a palpable carotid pulse or any other indications of heartbeat or respiration.

Inspector Johnson visually examined the body and observed what appeared to be multiple sharp force injuries to the back, chest and right forearm as well as a blunt force injury to the right side of the head.

Inspector Johnson noted that rigor mortis was not yet evident and early indications of livor mortis were observable on the anterior of the body and the right side of the face. While she withheld an official estimate pending an autopsy, Inspector Johnson speculated the victim had been dead approximately 2 to 4 hours. Inspector Johnson indicated that further details would be available in the official autopsy report.

After Inspector Johnson completed her initial inspection of the body, she stayed with the CSU team to ensure the integrity of the body while the team took photographs of the scene and performed preliminary analyses, until the body could be removed from the scene without affecting other evidence.

CSU arrived at the scene at approximately 7:35 a.m. R/Is instructed CSU to process the entire scene according to standard procedure.

A preliminary search of the immediate area for potential weapon(s) causing the injuries to the victim met with negative results. CSU will conduct a more intensive search and report their findings.

Body of the deceased was remanded into the custody of Coroner's Inspector Luwinda Johnson and was removed from the scene at 10:27 a.m. and transported to the coroner's office for autopsy.

R/Is left the scene at 12:35 p.m. Before leaving, R/I Murphy instructed CSU to seal the scene upon completion or end of day suspension of processing. CSU to notify R/Is of progress by the end of this date. As of this filing, CSU is still actively processing at the scene.

Evidence remanded into the custody of Forensics Officer T. R. Douglas for transport to the State Crime Lab for routine analysis. CSU is expected to submit an inventory of items taken into evidence within fourteen days of this report, with detailed report(s) of their findings to follow at a later date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                
